# Gazebo Visualization : A* Navigation using Open-Loop Control (ROS2) (nav.py)

Video link : https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lLRI2JweKauwgOPnFydHdjiqTeLnOuYo/view?usp=sharing

This ROS2 Python package implements a simple open-loop control strategy to navigate a robot along path generated from a star algorithm and is stored in a CSV file. It is designed for differential drive robots and assumes a known initial pose.

## **Input**:

A `path.csv` file contains waypoints (X, Y) which the robot must visit

### **Filtering**:

Consecutive waypoints that are too close (within 0.2m) are filtered out to minimize unnecessary micro-movements.

### **Coordinate Transformation**:

Each point is flipped along the X-axis and translated to match the simulation environment's coordinate frame.

### **Motion Execution**:

The robot:

- Rotates to face the target point.
- Moves in a straight line toward it.
- Stops.
- Repeats the above for all points.

This is done using **open-loop control**, without feedback from sensors (odometry, IMU, etc.) and shows the path generated by a star algorithm

---

## `path.csv` Format

```csv
x,y
0.0,0.0
0.5,0.5
1.0,1.0
```

- The first row must be the header: `x,y`
- Units are in meters.
- The path should be in the **map coordinate frame** (before internal transformation).

---

## Assumptions

- The robot starts at position `(-0.5, 2.5)` and is facing the **negative X-axis** (`θ = -π`).
- No sensor feedback (odometry/IMU) is used.
- Open-loop estimation is based on time and constant velocity.
- The x,y generated in a star algorithm script is scaled to fit the map in gazebo and also adjusted to its coordinate system.
- The spawning of the robot has to done by changing in the .world file.

---

## Setup & Run

### Requirements:

- ROS2 (Humble/Foxy)
- Python 3.8+

### To Run:

1. Clone the package into your ROS2 workspace.
2. Place your `path.csv` file in the same directory.
3. Source your ROS2 environment:
   ```bash
   source install/setup.bash
   ```
4. Run the node:
   ```bash
   ros2 run pkg_name go_to_point
   ```
   or
   run inside scripts/
   ```bash
   python3 nav.py
   ```

---

- The robot uses `/cmd_vel` to publish `geometry_msgs/Twist` commands.
- Motion is time-based and may drift over long distances.
- This method works well in **simulated environments** or small, structured maps.


### Part02: Launching the ROS Node

**Source ROS Environment:**  
Make sure your ROS environment is properly set up by running the following command

```bash
source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash
```
Launch the ROS Node:
Navigate to the Part02 directory and launch the ROS node using the provided launch file:
```bash
ros2 launch astar_falcon_planner ros_falcon_astar.launch.py \
    start_position:="[16.5, 5.5, 0.0]" \
    end_position:="[19.7, 8.4, 0.0]" \
    robot_radius:=0.22 \
    clearance:=0.05 \
    delta_time:=1.0 \
    goal_threshold:=0.3 \
    wheel_radius:=0.0335 \
    wheel_distance:=0.16 \
    rpms:="[50.0, 50.0]"
```
